What I'm also fascinated by is metrics that are different than engagement.
So the other thing, from an alien perspective,
what social networks are doing is they, um, they,
in the short term, bring out different aspects of each human being.
So first let me say that
an algorithm or a social network for each individual can bring out
the best of that person or the worst of that person,
or there's a bunch of different parts to us. Parts. We're proud of that we,
that we are and parts we're not so proud of when we look at the big picture of
our lives. When we look back 30 you days from now,
am I proud that I said those things or not?
<laugh> am I proud that I felt those things?
Am I proud that I experienced or read those things or thought about
those things just in that kind of self reflective kind of way.
And so coupled with that,
I wonder if it's possible to have different metrics that are not just about
engagement,
but are about long term happiness
growth of a human being, where they look back and say,
I am a better human being for having spent 100 hours on that app.
And that feels like it's actually strongly correlated with engagement
in the long term, in the short term, it may not be, but long term.
It's like the same kind of thing where you really fall in love with a product
mm-hmm, <affirmative> you fall in love with an iPhone.
You fall in love with a car.
That's what makes you fall in love is like really being proud
and just in a self reflective way,
understanding that you're better human being for having used the thing.
And that's like where the that's what great relationships are made from.
It's not just like you're hot and we like being together or
something like that.
It's more like I'm a better human being because I'm with you.
And that feels like a metric that could be optimized for by the algorithms.
Um, but you know, anytime I kind of talk about this with anybody,
they seem to say, yeah, yeah, okay.
That's going to get outcompeted immediately by the engagement, if it's a driven,
especially I, I just don't think so. I don't, I mean, um,
a lot of it's just implementation.
I'll say a couple things. One is to pull back the curtain on daily meetings
inside of these large social media companies,
a lot of what management or, or at least the people that are, are tweaking.
These algorithms spend their time on our trade offs.
And there's these things called value functions, which are like, okay,
we can predict the probability that you'll click on this thing,
or the probability that you'll share it,
or the probability that you will leave a comment on it,
or the probability mm you'll. Dwell on it, individual actions. Right.
And you've got this neural network that basically has a bunch of heads at the
end and all of them are between zero and one and great. They all have values,
right. Or, or, or they all have probabilities. Um,
and then in these meetings, what they will do is say, well, uh,
how much do we value a comment versus a click versus a share versus
a, and that maybe even some downstream thing, right. Um,
that has nothing to do with the item there,
but like driving follows or something.
And what typically happens is they will say, well,
what are our goals for this quarter, at the company? Oh,
we wanna drive sharing up. Okay, well, let's, uh,
turn down these metrics and turn up these metrics and, and the,
they blend them right into a single scaler with which they're trying to
optimize.
That is really hard because invariably you think you're solving for,
I don't know something called meaningful interactions, right.
And this was the big Facebook pivot. And I,
I don't actually have any internal knowledge, like I wasn't in those meetings,
but at least from,
from what we've seen over the last month or so it seems by actually trying to,
trying to optimize for meaningful interactions.
It had all these side effects of optimizing for these other things. Um,
and I don't claim to fully understand them.
But what I will say is that trade offs abound.
And as much as you'd like to solve for one thing,
if you have a network of over a billion people,
you're gonna have unintended consequences either way. And it gets really hard.
So what you're describing is effectively a value model that says like,
can we capture, this is the thing that I spent a lot of time thinking about.
Like, can you capture utility
in a way that like actually measure someone's happiness?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> that, isn't just a, um, what do they call it?
A surrogate problem where you say,
well kind of think like the more you use the product, the happier you are,
that was always the argument at Facebook, by the way, it was like, well,
people use it more, so they must be more happy. Yeah.
Turns out they're like a lot of things you use more that make you less happy in
the world, not talking about Facebook, just, you know,
let's think about whether it's gambling or whatever like that you can do more
of, but doesn't necessarily make you happier.
So the idea that time equals happiness.
Obviously you can't map utility and time together easily. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
there are a lot of edge cases. So when you look around the world and you say,
well, what are all the ways we can model utility? There's like one of the,
please, if you know, someone's smart doing this,
introduce me because I'm fascinated by it. And it seems really tough,
but the idea that reinforcement learning, like everyone interesting.
I know in machine learning, like I,
I was really interested in recommend systems and supervised learning and,
and the more I dug into it, I was like, oh,
literally everyone smart is working on reinforcement learning. <laugh> like,
literally everyone, you just made people at open AI and deep mind. Very happy.
Yes. But I mean, but what's interesting is like, it's one thing to train a game.
And like, I mean, that paper, that,
where they just took Atari and they used a ComNet to basically just like train
simple actions, mind blowing. Right. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> absolutely mind blowing, but it's a game. Great.
So now what if you're constructing a feed for a person, right?
Like how can you can construct that feed in such a way
that optimizes for a diversity of experience, a, uh,
a long term happiness, right. But that reward function,
it turns out in, in reinforcement learning again, as I've learned,
like reward design is really hard. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and
I don't like,
how do you design a scaler reward for someone's happiness over time? I mean,
do you have to measure dopamine levels? <laugh> like, do you have to, well.
You have to have a lot of,
a lot more signals from the human being currently.
It feels like there's not enough signals coming from the human being users of,
uh, of this algorithm.
So for reinforcement learning to work well needs to have a lot more.
Data needs to have a lot of data.
And that actually is a challenge for anyone who wants to start something,
which is you don't have a lot of data. So how do you compete?
But I do think back to your original point, rethinking the algorithm,
rethinking reward functions, rethinking utility.
That's fascinating. That's cool. And I think that's an, an open opportunity for,
for a company that figures it out.